# NespressoMetropolisCashJournalReconciliation

> Kunal Jeshang, Team Leader _(Project Timeline: April 2024 -- May 2024)_

[Click Here](https://nespressometropoliscashjournalreconcilia.onrender.com/) to view live version

## Premise

This project was designed with the intent to practice my basic web development skills and synthesize my what I have learnt as a Team Leader by re-creating a standard procedure that is typically performed using logical mathematics, basic calculator, and Microsoft Excel, which is the Cash Journal Reconciliation. The target audience of this project were other managers that work at the Nespresso Boutique, whereby cash journal reconciliations could be performed with speed and efficiency. Another ideal target audience are coffee specialists. Despite coffee specialists do not conduct cash journal reconciliations, I wanted to create a simple-to-understand tool, which requires minimal or no instruction necessary, whereby the act of performing it is simple. 

This project was created using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, and Javascript.

## Basic Concept

Please note that Cash Journal amount is considered a record of payment, or in other words, what the payment is expected to be given the selected/purchased item in the order. The Actual amount, or Terminal amount in the context of credit/debit card transactions, is a confirmation of payment and/or the actual payment received from the customer.

In the case of working at Nestle Nespresso, the Cash Journal Amounts are generated using the in-house Point-of-Sale Nespresso software. Checking this is imperative for spotcheck/closing cash journal reconciliations for both credit/debit card transactions and cash transactions. For opening cash transaction reconciliations, as no transactions take place, the fixed cash journal amount is $300.00 CAD. This is because it is a business rule to start the day with the aforementioned amount in the cashbox that can be utilized for providing customer change for cash transactions. 

It is important to understand that there are additional sub-payment modes in regards to credit/debit card transactions that are reflected when check the Cash Journal on Nespresso software. There is _Interactive Terminal_ which is only utilized for purchase orders, whereby the transaction number is autogenerated and the payment amount is automatically set & displayed on the pinpad/terminal for the customer. This is typically reflected using <u>POS</u>. The Cash Journal also shows <u>Register</u> which reflects transactions that involve an employee that manually populates the terminal/pinpad with a transaction number as well as payment amount; these transactions could infer purchases, refunds, and/or exchanges. To calculate the true Cash Journal amount for a given sales desk, please see the following arithmetic: 

    POS + Register = Cash Journal Amount

Below is a logical tables constructed to explain the concept of determining the outcome of a cash journal reconciliation.

|Credit/Debit Transaction Scenario|Cash Transaction Scenario|Outcome|
|--|--|--|
|Cash Journal Amount  > Terminal Amount|Cash Journal Amount > Total Physical Cash in cashbox|***Short*** (The customer did not pay the full amount, or were undercharged)|
|Cash Journal Amount  < Terminal Amount|Cash Journal Amount < Total Physical Cash in cashbox|***Over*** (The customer paid more than they should have, or were overcharged by mistake)|
|Cash Journal Amount  = Terminal Amount|Cash Journal Amount = Total Physical Cash in cashbox|Balanced|

## Features

All features are generally accessed via the navigation bar links/buttons. There may be additional buttons in the respective reconciliation features to see more information regarding the outcome of the reconciliation.

|Feature|How it is accessed|Description|
|--|--|--|
|Credit Card & Debit Card Reconciliation|Nav Link|This portion of the application assists to perform spotcheck/closing credit & debit card transaction reconciliation for a each sales desk, as well as cumulatively.|
|Cash Reconciliation|Nav Link|This portion of the application helps the user perform opening cash transaction reconciliation, spotcheck/closing cash transaction reconciliation, as well as auto-sets an End-of-Day Cash Deposit depending on the results of a closing cash reconciliation.|
|GitHub Repository|Nav Link|This link redirects to the GitHub repository that shows the codebase of this applicaiton.|
|Generate Report|Button|Prints the webpage. Either Credit/Debit Card Reconciliation or Cash Reconciliation portion of the application would be present at a given time depending on which reconciliation you are performing (i.e., reconciliation Nav Link selected). Also, the navigation bar would disappear when a report is generated.|
|Reset|Button|Refreshes the webpage, in turn, all fields that were previously populated are now empty.|

